---
title: Bitsy
date: 2025-03-10
description: A miniature game maker for people who can't code.
website: https://make.bitsy.org/
---

**Bitsy** is a minimalist game engine that strips creativity down to the essentials. Designed for crafting tiny, charming adventures, Bitsy shines with its straightforward approach: draw pixel art, build compact scenes, and instantly bring interactive stories to life. Forget complex coding - Bitsy focuses purely on storytelling, inviting anyone to quickly transform ideas into playable experiences.

Perfect for beginners and seasoned creatives alike, Bitsy thrives on limitation. Its compact 8x8 tiles, limited color palettes, and text-driven interactions push your imagination further, challenging you to convey big ideas in small spaces. Whether you're building cozy narrative games or quirky explorations, Bitsy is an accessible, playful gateway to game-making magic.

Bitsy has a vibrant community eager to celebrate your pixel-sized creations. Once your tiny adventure is complete, sharing is as simple as posting a link online—perfect for social media, blogs, or embedding directly into your own website. If you're seeking inspiration, the Bitsy community regularly hosts themed game jams, encouraging creators worldwide to craft miniature stories around a shared concept. These jams not only spark creativity but also connect you with fellow enthusiasts, making Bitsy a welcoming entry into a thriving indie game community.

Check out current jams and community highlights at [itch.io Bitsy jams](https://itch.io/jams/tag-bitsy). The Bitsy website also includes links to [documentation](https://make.bitsy.org/docs/), and a [forum](https://ledoux.itch.io/bitsy/community) so you can get help when you're getting started.
