---
title: Issue 29
date: 2026-02-23
---

I am writing this whilst watching the closing ceremony of the 2026 Winter Olympics in Italy. I'm not into sport but I found myself watching a surprising amount of it over the last couple of weeks. I think I prefer this to the regular Olympics. A lot of the events are about skill rather than strength or speed, and that makes them more interesting to watch. The ice skating and snowboarding events in particular were really fun.

This last week was also half term so I spent a very enjoyable week with my boy. A lot of that time was spent doing Pokemon related things, including him competing in a Pokemon Cup.

We also spent last Friday searching for the new Pokemon cards in the shops. This was the first time we had been able to go out on release day when the shops opened, and it was fascinating seeing all the scalpers queuing up and then running from shop to shop trying to buy as much as they could whilst real Pokemon fans like us were left to pick up the scaps. Fortunately we have learnt over the last year the best places to get the cards and were able to get the things we wanted, but it's very frustrating seeing the scalpers making this harder for those of us who just want to enjoy the hobby.

This Saturday just gone (the 21st of Feb) it was also the 40th anniversary of the Legend of Zelda. My favorite game franchise ever. Long may it continue bring me (and everyone else) joy.

Next week (the 27th of Feb) is Pokemon day, where we will be celebrating the 30th anniversary of Pokemon. My son and I are both looking forward to seeing what they announce.

Nintendo are also celebrating the 40th year since the release of Super Mario Bros. in Japan, which happened on the 13th of September 1985. The new movie in April looks awesome.

---

## Paper Apps

Gladden design are a husband and wife team, Tom and Sarah Brinton, from the USA who make paper based games using programming techniques.

{% include embed-browsershots.html url="https://gladdendesign.com" %}

Tom has a background as a game developer and he transferred this to making physical products. I first became aware of them when I saw their paper dungeons game.

Paper Apps Dungeon is a role playing game where you traverse a series of dungeons in a paper book. Each page of the book is a different room or level, and you have to get to the end. The first page of the book is a character sheet where you fill out your stats and character details. Throughout the book there are shops where you can stock up on items.

All you need to play is a pencil and a die. They also designed a special Pencil Dice which is a pencil with 6 sides, and each side is numbered. So you can roll the pencil to get a random number.

The extra special thing is that each book is unique. They use a procedural generation algorithm to create the dungeons, so each book has a totally different set of dungeons in it.

The whole project is really well designed and fits in a pocket so you can take it with you anywhere. I actually have a couple of their dungeon books and have played the game with my son when we go on holiday. It's a simple enjoyable thing to do and, it doesn't use a screen, which makes for a nice change.

Since making Paper Apps Dungeon, their first project, Gladden Design have released a hole treasure trove of new Paper Apps that can all be played with a pencil and a die. These include space exploration, golf, and a first person labyrinth.

In addition they have released Golf XL, a 2 player golf game, along with a double ended pencil with multiple colours and a die in the middle.

Finally they have released 2 regular Paper Apps. A TODO list app, and a health tracker. All apps have the same paper format and are designed to be fun to use, and to reduce the reliance on screens. As a screen based designer I increasingly think this is an important thing to do, and I really admire (and envy) the things Tom and Sarah have created. I hope they continue to make more paper apps in the future.

---

## The Untold Story of the NES

{% include embed-youtube.html video="uJvpRGibFhg" %}

Since there's so many things to celebrate for Nintendo this year I thought this video was a good one to share. The NES (or Famicom as it was called in Japan) was my first console. I shared it with my brothers on a tiny tv in the living room and it literally changed my life. If it wasn't for videogames my career would have been very different.

If you're interested in Nintendo or the history of videogames then Keza MacDonald also has a new book out called [Super Nintendo: How One Japanese Company Helped the World Have Fun](https://guardianbookshop.com/super-nintendo-9781783353057/) which is a history of Nintendo and the people who made it what it is today. I haven't read it yet but it's on my list. I have however read [Ask Iwata](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54736620-ask-iwata) and [Game Over](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/339584.Game_Over_Press_Start_to_Continue) which are both excellent books about Nintendo and the people who made it what it is today. Game Over in particular is the story of Tetris and the legal battles that surrounded it, it has since been made in a film called [Tetris](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt12758060/) which is also worth a watch.

[Watch on YouTube 🕹️](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uJvpRGibFhg)

---

## Wikiflix

{% include embed-browsershots.html url="https://wikiflix.toolforge.org/" %}

Wikiflix is a website that hosts archived movies and TV shows that are in the public domain. It's a great resource for finding old movies and TV shows that you might not be able to find anywhere else. The site is free to use and is wonderful. There's all sorts of movies on there from the legions of famous old movies that helped to create the film industry.

On the homepage alone it has Metropolis, loads of Charlie Chaplin movies, It's a Wonderful Life, Steamboat Willie (the first Mickey Mouse cartoon) and many more classics. If you love film then this is a treasure trove of movies to explore.

It also contains more modern content that has been released into the public domain. You can view the [movies grouped by year](https://wikiflix.toolforge.org/#/year). There is more recent content but most of it is amateur content. For complete films and film history you want to go back tot he beginning and see the earliest stuff. The earlist film on there is from the [1874](https://wikiflix.toolforge.org/#/year/1874), it's the Passage de Vénus which is actually a series of photographs of the transit of the planet Venus across the Sun. They also have [Pauverre Pierot](https://wikiflix.toolforge.org/#/entry/979022), one of the first animated films ever made, from 1892.

So much history, if you're interested in Brush Ninja and

---

## Currently Reading

At the moment I am reading [The Book That Held Her Heart by Mark Lawrence](). It's the third book in the Library Trilogy, a complex fantasy series initially set in a world where all the information in the world is stored in a giant library. Later there is time travel and the story becomes quite complicated as we swap between time periods and learn about the creation of entire species who are all battling for control of the library.

There's a surprising amount of parallels between the story and the real world, in particular with how people use knowledge and information. In the first book it's mentioned that the King who currently controls the library uses facts from books to justify his acts, but also that there have been books written about everything so you can always find a book that supports your point of view - even if it's not valid.

The third book starts with the head librarian travelling through time in search of something, I've only read a few chapters so far but he's currently travelling through Nazi Germany being helped by a young Jewish book seller. Because of this we see a lot of the prejudices and attitudes of the time before World War 2 began.

This isn't the first of Mark Lawrence's books I've read. My favorite series of his is probably the [Book of the Ancestor trilogy](), which is a fantasy series about a convent of nuns who are trained to be assassins. It's a really interesting take on the fantasy genre and has some really great characters.

The first series I read was the [Impossible Times trilogy](), which is science fiction set in the 80s/ 90s in South London a time and place I know since it's where I grew up.

All of these books are mature stories, and deal with complex themes and ideas, but they are also fun with lots of twists and turns. Interestingly all of Marks books are set in